Improve/Upgrade the migration guide to address the need of the users to move from pre-1.0.0 to latest (#4536)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/building-operators/golang/migration.md

---
link: Migrating Projects from pre-v1.0.0 to the latest release
linkTitle: Migrating from pre-v1.0.0 to latest
weight: 200
description: Instructions for migrating a Go-based project built prior to `v1.0.0` (`0.19.x+`) to use the Kubebuilder-style layout which is the default layout adopted by SDK since the `1.0.0` release.
---

## Overview

> The motivation for the new layout was to [integrate Kubebuilder and Operator SDK][integration-doc] based projects. This enables Kubebuilder based projects to use the features provided by Operator SDK. For further information behind this motivation, check [What are the the differences between Kubebuilder and Operator-SDK?][what-are-the-the-differences-between-kubebuilder-and-operator-sdk]. 

Reviewer: Nit: This may look better
```suggestion
The motivation for the new layout was to [integrate Kubebuilder and Operator SDK][integration-doc] based projects. This enables Kubebuilder based projects to use the features provided by Operator SDK. For further information behind this motivation, check [the differences between Kubebuilder and Operator-SDK][what-are-the-the-differences-between-kubebuilder-and-operator-sdk]. 
```

> The motivation for the new layout was to [integrate Kubebuilder and Operator SDK][integration-doc] based projects. This enables Kubebuilder based projects to use the features provided by Operator SDK. For further information behind this motivation, check [What are the the differences between Kubebuilder and Operator-SDK?][what-are-the-the-differences-between-kubebuilder-and-operator-sdk]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The motivation for the new layout is to [integrate Kubebuilder and Operator SDK][integration-doc] based projects. This enables Kubebuilder based projects to use the features provided by Operator SDK. For further information behind this motivation, check [What are the the differences between Kubebuilder and Operator-SDK?][what-are-the-the-differences-between-kubebuilder-and-operator-sdk]. 
```

Projects are now scaffold using:

- [kustomize][kustomize] to manage Kubernetes resources needed to deploy your operator

> - A `Makefile` with helpful targets to build, test, deploy and tailor things to your project's needs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A `Makefile` with helpful targets to build, test, deploy and tailor things based on your project needs
```

> - Helpers and options to work with webhooks. For further information see [What is webhook?][webhook-doc]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Helpers and options to work with webhooks. For further information see [What is a Webhook?][webhook-doc]
```

- Updated metrics configuration using [kube-auth-proxy][kube-auth-proxy], a `--metrics-addr` flag, and [kustomize][kustomize]-based deployment of a Kubernetes `Service` and prometheus operator `ServiceMonitor`
- Scaffolded tests that use the [`envtest`][envtest] test framework

> - A preliminary support for plugins. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc] 

Reviewer: Nit - 
```suggestion
- A preliminary support for plugins. For more info see the [extensible CLI and scaffolding plugins design document][plugins-phase1-design-doc] 
```

> - A PROJECT file which stores more information about the resources in use, to better enable plugins to make useful decisions while scaffolding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A PROJECT file which stores more information about the resources in use, to enable plugins make useful decisions while scaffolding
```

- Liveness and Readiness probes using [`healthz.Ping`][healthz-ping].

> - A new option to create the projects using ComponentConfig. For more info see its [enhancement proposal][enhancement proposal] and the [Component config tutorial][component-config-tutorial]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A new option to create projects using ComponentConfig. For more info, see [enhancement proposal][enhancement proposal] and the [Component config tutorial][component-config-tutorial]
```

- Go version `1.15` (previously it was `1.13).

Generated files with the default API versions:

- `apiextensions/v1` for generated CRDs (`apiextensions/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16`)
- `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` for webhooks (`admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16`)
- `cert-manager.io/v1` for the certificate manager when webhooks are used (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated in `Cert-Manager 0.14`. More info: [CertManager v1.0 docs][cert-manager-docs])

**NOTE** You can still use the deprecated APIs which are only needed to support Kubernetes `1.15` and earlier.

## Migration Steps

The most straightforward migration path is to:
1. Create a new project from scratch to let `operator-sdk` scaffold the new project.
2. Copy your existing code and configuration into the new project structure.

> **Note:** It is recommended that you have your project upgraded to the latest SDK release version (0.19.x+) before following the steps of this guide to migrate to new layout. 

Reviewer: Nit: 
```suggestion
**Note:** It is recommended that you have your project upgraded to the latest SDK release version (0.19.x+) before following the steps in this guide to migrate to new layout. 
```

> Please, ensure that you have checked [Can I customize the projects generated with SDK tool?][faq-custom] in the [FAQ][faq] before continuing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please ensure that you have read [Can I customize the projects generated with SDK tool?][faq-custom] in the [FAQ][faq] before continuing further.
```

- [kustomize][kustomize] to manage Kubernetes resources needed to deploy your operator
- A `Makefile` with helpful targets for build, test, and deployment, and to give you flexibility to tailor things to your project's needs
- Helpers and options to work with webhooks. For further information see [What is webhook?][webhook-doc]
- Updated metrics configuration using [kube-auth-proxy][kube-auth-proxy], a `--metrics-addr` flag, and [kustomize][kustomize]-based deployment of a Kubernetes `Service` and prometheus operator `ServiceMonitor`
- Scaffolded tests that use the [`envtest`][envtest] test framework
- A preliminary support for plugins. For more info see the [Extensible CLI and Scaffolding Plugins][plugins-phase1-design-doc] 
- A PROJECT file which stores more information about what resources are in use, to better enable plugins to make useful decisions when scaffolding`
- Liveness and Readiness probes using [`healthz.Ping`][healthz-ping].
- A new option to create the projects using ComponentConfig. For more info see its [enhancement proposal][enhancement proposal] and the [Component config tutorial][component-config-tutorial]

> - [controller-tools][controller-tools] `v0.4.1` and [controller-runtime][controller-runtime] `v0.7.0`

Author: Fari enough.

- Go version `1.15` (previously it was `1.13).

Generated files with the default API versions:

- `apiextensions/v1` for generated CRDs (`apiextensions/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16`)
- `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` for webhooks (`admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` was deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16`)
- `cert-manager.io/v1` for the certificate manager when webhooks are used (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated in `Cert-Manager 0.14`. More info: [CertManager v1.0 docs][cert-manager-docs])

**NOTE** You are still able to use the deprecated APIs which is only needed if you want your operator to support Kubernetes `1.15` and earlier.

## Migration Steps

The most straightforward migration path is to:
1. Create a new project from scratch to let `operator-sdk` scaffold the new project.
2. Copy your existing code and configuration into the new project structure.

> **Note:** It is recommend that you have your project upgraded to the latest SDK release version (0.19.x+) before following the steps of this guide to migrate to new layout. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** It is recommended that you have your project upgraded to the latest SDK release version (0.19.x+) before following the steps of this guide to migrate to new layout. 
```

## Migrate APIs and Controllers

> Now we have our new project initialized, we need to re-create each of our APIs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that we have our new project initialized, we need to re-create each of our APIs.
```

    --controller
```

### How to keep `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1` for CRDs?

> From now on, the CRDs that will be created by controller-gen will be using the Kubernetes API version `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1`  by default, instead of `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
From now on, the CRDs that will be created by controller-gen will be using Kubernetes API version `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1` by default, instead of `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1`. 
```

type MemcachedList struct {...}
```

## Webhooks

> SDK version `1.0.0` and later has support for webhooks by the CLI. If your project doesn't require any webhooks, you can skip this section. However, if have been using it via customizations in your project, you should use the tool to re-scaffold the webhooks.  

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
SDK versions `1.0.0` and later have support for webhooks by the CLI. If your project doesn't require any webhooks, you can skip this section. However, if have been using it via customizations in your project, you should use the tool to re-scaffold the webhooks.  
```

A webhook can only be scaffolded for a pre-existent API in your project. Then, for each case you will run the command `operator-sdk create webhook` providing the `--group`, `--kind` and `version` of the API based on the flags that need to be used.

> The valid flags for its types are: `--defaulting`, `--programmatic-validation` and `--conversion`. Use the same type that was used for scaffolding. To create `defaulting` and `validating` webhook:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The valid flags for its types are: `--defaulting`, `--programmatic-validation` and `--conversion`. Use the same type that was used for scaffolding. To create `defaulting` and `programmatic-validation` webhook:
```

Author: `validating ` and `defaulting ` are the types. ``programmatic-validation` is the flag.

```sh
operator-sdk create webhook \
    --group=cache \
    --version=<version> \
    --kind=<Kind> \
    --defaulting \
    --programmatic-validation
```

To create `conversion` webhook:

```sh
operator-sdk create webhook \
    --group=cache \
    --version=<version> \
    --kind=<Kind> \
    --conversion 
```

After the webhook is generated, you will need to copy the webhook definition and content from your old project to the new one. You can find the respective file in `api/v1/<kind>_webhook.go`.

### How to keep using `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1` for Webhooks?

Hereafter, the webhooks that are created by SDK will use Kubernetes API version `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` by default instead of `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` and `cert-manager.io/v1` instead of `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`. 
    
Note that `apiextensions/v1beta1` and `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` were deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed in Kubernetes `1.22`. If you use `apiextensions/v1` and `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1`, then you need to use `cert-manager.io/v1` which will be the default API adopted by the SDK CLI.

> **NOTE** If you are using the API `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`, it is not compatible with the latest Kubernetes API version. (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated in `Cert-Manager 0.14`. More info: [CertManager v1.0 docs][cert-manager-docs])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE** If you are using the API `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`, it is not compatible with the latest Kubernetes API version. (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated in `Cert-Manager 0.14`. For more info, refer to [CertManager v1.0 docs][cert-manager-docs])
```

type MemcachedList struct {...}
```

## Webhooks

> From the SDK version `1.0.0`, webhooks are supported by the CLI. If you don't have any webhooks, you can skip this section. However, if have been use it via customizations done in your project then, you should use the tool to re-scaffold the webhooks. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
SDK version `1.0.0` and later has support for webhooks by the CLI. If your project doesn't require any webhooks, you can skip this section. However, if have been using it via customizations in your project, you should use the tool to re-scaffold the webhooks. 
```

> A webhook can only be scaffold for a pre-existent API in your project. Then, for each case you will run the command `operator-sdk create webhook` informing the `--group`, `--kind` and `version` of the API which should be used. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A webhook can only be scaffolded for a pre-existent API in your project. Then, for each case you will run the command `operator-sdk create webhook` providing the `--group`, `--kind` and `version` of the API based on the flags that need to be used.
```

> The valid types are: `defaulting`, `validation` and `conversion`. Use the same type used before to do this scaffold. To create defaulting and validating webhooks :

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The valid types are: `--defaulting`, `--validation` and `--conversion`. Use the same type that was used for scaffolding. To create `defaulting` and `validating` webhooks:
```

```sh
operator-sdk create webhook \
    --group=cache \
    --version=<version> \
    --kind=<Kind> \
    --defaulting \
    --programmatic-validation
```

> And then, to create conversion webhook use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create `conversion` webhook:
```

```sh
operator-sdk create webhook \
    --group=cache \
    --version=<version> \
    --kind=<Kind> \
    --conversion 
```

> After generate the webhook you will need to 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After the webhook is generated, you will need to copy the webhook definition and content from your old project to the new one. You can find the respective file in `api/v1/<kind>_webhook.go`.
```

copy the webhook definition and content from your old project to the new one. You will find the file in `api/v1/<kind>_webhook.go`. 

### How to keep using `apiextensions.k8s.io/v1beta1` for Webhooks?

> From now on, the Webhooks that will be created by SDK using by default the Kubernetes API version `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` instead of `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` and the `cert-manager.io/v1` instead of `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hereafter, the webhooks that are created by SDK will use Kubernetes API version `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` by default instead of `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` and `cert-manager.io/v1` instead of `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`. 
```

> Note that `apiextensions/v1beta1` and `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` were deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed  in Kubernetes `1.22`. If you use `apiextensions/v1` and `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1` then you need to use `cert-manager.io/v1` which will be the API adopted per SDK CLI by default in this case.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that `apiextensions/v1beta1` and `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1beta1` were deprecated in Kubernetes `1.16` and will be removed in Kubernetes `1.22`. If you use `apiextensions/v1` and `admissionregistration.k8s.io/v1`, then you need to use `cert-manager.io/v1` which will be the default API adopted by the SDK CLI.  
```

> **NOTE** If you are using the API `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` is not compatible with the latest Kubernetes API versions. (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated in `Cert-Manager 0.14`. More info: [CertManager v1.0 docs][cert-manager-docs])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE** If you are using the API `cert-manager.io/v1alpha2`, it is not compatible with the latest Kubernetes API version. (`cert-manager.io/v1alpha2` was deprecated in `Cert-Manager 0.14`. More info: [CertManager v1.0 docs][cert-manager-docs])
```

> So, if you would like to keep using the previous version use the flag `--webhook-version=v1beta1` in the above command which is only needed if you want your operator to support Kubernetes `1.15` and earlier.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you would like to use the previous version, use the flag `--webhook-version=v1beta1` in the above command which is required if you want your operator to support Kubernetes `1.15` and earlier.
```

See the complete migrated `memcached_controller.go` code [here][memcached_controller].

> **Note:** The version of [controller-runtime][controller-runtime] used in the projects scaffold via SDK was `0.19.x+` was `v0.6.0`. Then, check [sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime release docs from 0.7.0+ version][controller-runtime] for breaking changes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note:** The version of [controller-runtime][controller-runtime] used in the projects scaffolded by SDK `0.19.x+` was `v0.6.0`. Please check [sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime release docs from 0.7.0+ version][controller-runtime] for breaking changes.
```

make docker-build IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>
```

## Verify the migration

> The project can now be built, and the operator can be deployed on cluster. You can use the command `make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>`. For further steps regarding the deployment of the operator, creation of custom resources, and cleaning up of resources, see the [quickstart guide][quickstart].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The project can now be built, and the operator can be deployed on cluster by running the command: 
`make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:<tag>`
For further steps regarding the deployment of the operator, creation of custom resources, and cleaning up of resources, see the [quickstart guide][quickstart].
```
